The makefile should detect the architecture automatically now.

To compile you should have dev tools installed and just do a:

make ROMSRC=romimagefile

It should automatcally detect your machine type now and compile accordingly.

The binary images are in the folder binary_dumps

To compile the emulator to use the HK21 rom image you need to do the following:

make ROMSRC=binary_dumps/hk21rom.bin

There is also a u21 rom image you can play with that has the kiss protocol in it.
We plan on adding a command line switch soon to redirect console i/o to stdin/out
so you can talk to the tnc using a kiss terminal or other software. Still experimenal.


The makefile automatically copys a default tnc.ram from the binary_dumps directory. This is an initial
ram image for the tnc with a lot of the tnc's configuration options preset. You will need to set mycall
to you callsign by issuing the command "mycall callsign". Once that is set hit ctrl-c to exit the
program and it will save the ram config with your call. If you want to start fresh like a real cold
boot delete the file tnc.ram and the tnc will come up in autobaud. You will need to press the *
several times for it to detect the baudrate. Of course this is fake since there is no baud rate to
the console but that is how the original tnc works and since we emulate the serial ports its expected.
When you get the prompt then the tnc will be set to the default values. A lot of the config options
don't matter since this is an emulator but you can set any of them as if this was a true tnc. Refer
to the hk-21 manual for what the settings are, or most tnc manuals since a lot of the commands are
standard. You can use "disp" to see the current settings of the tnc.


----------------
OPERATION

To run the tnc just type ./tnc ip address or url and port of a bpq server.

For example if your running bpq on your local machine:

./tnc 127.0.0.1 10093

Also the default IP and Port can be changed in the source tnc.c and after
a recompile you can just do ./tnc to run it and it will use the defaults.

You can also enter a url:

./tnc SOME_BPQ_SERVER 10093

The tnc program listens on port 10094 or incoming connections so if you
wanted to add a route from your bpq server to the tnc you would tell
bpq to connect on 10094.


KEYBOARD and TNC OPERATION NOTES
--------------------------------
Normally on a standard tnc, the setting COMMAND that sets the key 
that returns you to the tnc command prompt is $03 CTRL-C. However
CTRL-C is trapped and used to exit the tnc emulator so we have
set it to CTRL-E $05. You can examine this if you type COMMAND
at the tnc prompt it will show you what it is set to. This is
setup in the default tnc.ram file that is copied for you on
a make. If you remove this file the tnc will start as a cold
start as if ram was corrupted and setup the internal settings to
defaults which you will have to change manually. Unless you know
about all the tnc settings we advise against that.

The only thing you need to do on first start is set MYCALL to your CALL.
Also if you want to run the bbs set MYMCALL to your call-1 so and also
set MBOD to on. For example:

MYCALL AA7EZ
MYBOD ON
MYMCALL AA7EZ-1

To connect to the remote bpq node you issue a connect command with
the ax25 name of the bpq server.

C AA7EZ-7 


KISS PROTOCOL
-------------
The latest version of the emulator supports connecting to a kiss
protocol server such as a soundmodem device like direwolf etc.
The -k parameter on the command line will switch the emulator
into this mode and you must specify as usual the target host
ip and port for the kiss port. The protocol will establish 
a TCP socket instead of a UDP datagram connection to the KISS
server and start to communicate AX25 packets in KISS mode.

When in this mode certain AX25 paramters that can be changed
at the command line level such as slottime, persist and 
axhang will be sent to the kiss server to affect the
same properties on the remote side. Txdelay is also one
of these but is currently having issues and will be fixed
at a future date.

Using the kiss protocol and a soundmodem the emulator will
behave as the original physical TNC once did, minus some
timing differences but moslty will work ok. Experiment
with this and any feedback is appreciated.

73 de KF7PSM
